Figure XX shows displays the distribution of merged tracks at a given
day as standard deviation ellipses (Ebdon, 1986). These ellipses are
centered at the centroid of the distribution and rotated such that
the ellipsis axes agrees with the principal axes of the
distribution. The length of the axes are one standard deviation in
that direction. The ellipses are stretched to fit the map
projection. 

The dates start at the end of August, in the phase of backwards
trajectories. All distributions show larger east-west extent then
north-south, indication that the longitude is more uncertain than the
latitude. The first three are close in time and quite similar in the
southern Barents Sea. At this time, in the first half of the
September, the tag shows high temperatures and relative shallow dives
(fig. tag83101_smooth.png). The three next panels are from October,
the period with the deepest dives and colder surface temperature. The
tracks are therefore found in the deeper Bear Island Trench.

The dates of the frames are determined by the presence of reasonably
good geolocations by light. These independent measurements are
indicated by a red circle. In most of the frames the geolocation are
within or close to the standard deviation ellipsis, indicating that
the model tracks are doing a good job. In frame two the geolocation is
at 65 degrees north, outside the map. This must be an error.
(***Cesar, have you corrected this). In frame three the location is
back at the Norwegian coast. This looks unrealistic, but can not be
ruled out. Frame four is bang on. In the last frame, most of the
tracks are still in the deeper part of the trench giving a centroid
approximately two standard deviations too far west. This is consistent
with deep dives to 324 m 20th October and 394 m the 23rd, preventing most
tracks from going further east. However, there are tracks
close to the geolocation, contributing to the elongated shape of the
ellipsis pointing towards the geolocation.























Ref:

David Ebdon, Statistics in geography, 2nd ed., 1985, Blackwell
Publishing.
